[update] Added telegraf to how-to (#1835)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/how-to-guides/ingest-data/ingest-telegraf.md

---
title: Telegraf
excerpt: Ingest data into TimescaleDB using the Telegraf plugin
keywords: [ingest, Telegraf]
tags: [insert]
---

# Telegraf

Telegraf collects metrics from a wide array of inputs and writes them to a wide
array of outputs. It is plugin-driven for both collection and output of data so
it is extendable. It is written in Go, which means that it is a compiled
and standalone binary that can be run on any system with no need for
external dependencies, or package management tools required.

Telegraf is an open source tool. It contains over 200 plugins for gathering and
writing different types of data written by people who work with that data.

## Before you begin

> *   [Install Telegraf][install-telegraf] on the system you want to collect metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   [Install Telegraf][install-telegraf] on the system where you want to collect metrics.
```

*   Install TimescaleDB or create a [TimescaleDB service][create-service] on
    Timescale Cloud.
*   Gather the connection details for [TimescaleDB][connect-timescaledb].
*   Install Grafana or create a Grafana service on [Managed Service for TimescaleDB][grafana-mst]

> ### Ingesting metrics using Telegraf plugin to TimescaleDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Ingest metrics using Telegraf plugin to TimescaleDB
```

<procedure>

> #### Generating a configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generating a configuration file
```

1.  Check the version of Telegraf that you installed:

    ```bash

>     telegrapf --version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    telegraf --version
```

    ```

1.  Generate a sample configuration file for Telegraf using:

    ```bash
    telegraf --input-filter=cpu --output-filter=postgresql config > telegraf.conf
    ```

    A configuration file enables a CPU input plugin that samples various metrics

>     of CPU usage, and the PostgreSQL output plugin. The file also includes all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    about CPU usage, and the PostgreSQL output plugin. The file also includes all
```

>     available input, output, processor, and aggregator plugins, commented out
>     and you can enable them as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    available input, output, processor, and aggregator plugins. These are commented out
    commented out by default. You can enable them as required.
```

    2022-11-28T12:53:44Z I! Available plugins: 208 inputs, 9 aggregators, 26 processors, 20 parsers, 57 outputs
    2022-11-28T12:53:44Z I! Loaded inputs: cpu
    2022-11-28T12:53:44Z I! Loaded aggregators: 
    2022-11-28T12:53:44Z I! Loaded processors: 
    2022-11-28T12:53:44Z W! Outputs are not used in testing mode!
    2022-11-28T12:53:44Z I! Tags enabled: host=localhost
    > cpu,cpu=cpu0,host=localhost usage_guest=0,usage_guest_nice=0,usage_idle=90.00000000087311,usage_iowait=0,usage_irq=0,usage_nice=0,usage_softirq=0,usage_steal=0,usage_system=6.000000000040018,usage_user=3.999999999996362 1669640025000000000
    > cpu,cpu=cpu1,host=localhost usage_guest=0,usage_guest_nice=0,usage_idle=92.15686274495818,usage_iowait=0,usage_irq=0,usage_nice=0,usage_softirq=0,usage_steal=0,usage_system=5.882352941192206,usage_user=1.9607843136712912 1669640025000000000
    > cpu,cpu=cpu2,host=localhost usage_guest=0,usage_guest_nice=0,usage_idle=91.99999999982538,usage_iowait=0,usage_irq=0,usage_nice=0,usage_softirq=0,usage_steal=0,usage_system=3.999999999996362,usage_user=3.999999999996362 1669640025000000000
    ```

</procedure>

<procedure>

> #### Configuring the PostgreSQL output plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring the PostgreSQL output plugin
```

1.  Open the `telegraf.conf` file using an editor of your choice:

    ```bash
    nano telegraf.conf
    ```

> 1.  Set the `connection` parameter in the `[[outputs.postgresql]] section to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Set the `connection` parameter in the `[[outputs.postgresql]]` section to
```

    the`<SERVICE URL>` of the TimescaleDB service that you created:

    ```bash
    connection = "<SERVICE URL>"
    ```

1.  Create a hypertable by adding the `table_template` parameter in the config
    file to execute when creating a new table:

    ```bash
    ## Templated statements to execute when creating a new table.
    # create_templates = [
    #   '''CREATE TABLE {{ .table }} ({{ .columns }})''',
    # ]
    #  table_template=`CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS {TABLE}({COLUMNS}); SELECT create_hypertable({TABLELITERAL},'time',chunk_time_interval := INTERVAL '1 week',if_not_exists := true);`

    ```

</procedure>

<procedure>

> #### Viewing the metrics collected by Telegraf in TimescaleDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Viewing the metrics collected by Telegraf in TimescaleDB
```

1.  Run Telegraf to collect the metrics:

    ```bash
    telegraf --config telegraf.conf
    ```

    The output uses loaded inputs `cpu`and outputs `postgresql` along with
    `global tags`, and the intervals with which the agent collects the data from

>     the inputs, and flush to the outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the inputs, and flushes to the outputs.
```

    2022-12-05 12:25:20 | cpu3      | hostname|           0 |                0 | 86.68639053296472 |            0 |         0 |          0 |             0 |           0 |    4.43786982253345 |   8.875739645039992
    2022-12-05 12:25:20 | cpu4      | hostname |           0 |                0 | 96.15384615371369 |            0 |         0 |          0 |             0 |           0 |  1.1834319526667423 |  2.6627218934917614
    ```

1.  To view the average usage per CPU core, use:

    ```sql
    SELECT cpu, avg(usage_user) FROM cpu GROUP BY cpu;
    ```

    An output similar to this appears:

    ```sql
        cpu    |         avg         
     -----------+---------------------
      cpu7      | 0.36239363864003277
      cpu-total |  2.7778985775548013
      cpu4      |  1.9990184779524285
      cpu2      |   4.083993994915682
      cpu0      |   5.281711648540422
      cpu1      |  4.9013756546309155
      cpu6      |  0.6719913538159535
      cpu5      |  1.0512637475474937
      cpu3      |   3.871919066617788
    ```  

</procedure>

For more information about the options that you can configure in Telegraf,

> see [PostgreQL output plugin] [output-plugin]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see [PostgreQL output plugin][output-plugin].
```

<procedure>

> #### Visualizing data in Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Visualizing data in Grafana
```

1.  Log in to Grafana and navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data
    sources page lists previously configured data sources for the Grafana
    instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `PostgreSQL` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source:

>     *   In the `Name` field, type name that you would like for dataset on TimescaleDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   In the `Name` field, type the name that you would like to use for the dataset.
```

    *   In the `PostgreSQL Connection` section, type the  `Database`, `User`,
        and `Password` fields using the `.sql` file that you downloaded when
        creating the TimescaleDB service. 

>     *   In the `Host` type `<HOST>:<PORT>` from the `.sql` file that you downloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   In the `Host` field, type `<HOST>:<PORT>` from the `.sql` file that you downloaded.
```

>     *   Set `TLS/SSL Mode` as `require`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   Set `TLS/SSL Mode` to `require`.
```

>     *   In `PostgreSQL details` enable `TimescaleDB`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   In `PostgreSQL details`, enable `TimescaleDB`
```

> 1.  Click `Save & test` button. If the connection is successful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click `Save & test`. If the connection is successful,
```

    `Database Connection OK` appears.  

</procedure>

When you have configured TimescaleDB as a data source in Grafana, you can create
panels that are populated with data using SQL.

[output-plugin]: https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/release-1.24/plugins/outputs/postgresql/README.md
[install-telegraf]: https://docs.influxdata.com/telegraf/v1.21/introduction/installation/
[create-service]: /install/latest/installation-cloud/

> [connect-timescaledb]: /timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/connecting/about-connecting/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[connect-timescaledb]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/connecting/about-connecting/
```

    *   In the `Host` field, type `<HOST>:<PORT>` from the `.sql` file that you downloaded.
    *   Set `TLS/SSL Mode` to `require`.
    *   In `PostgreSQL details`, enable `TimescaleDB`
1.  Click `Save & test`. If the connection is successful,

>     `Database Connection OK` appears.  

Reviewer 2: "appears" always feels a little magical to me, somehow 🪄 ✨

>     `Database Connection OK` appears.  

Author: to me as well :)
